[5429-5465]
There is also exhaustion without the arising of visions of increasing experience and so forth—this is called "supreme instantaneous mind." Moreover, merely through each act of respect for the guru, greater than others, possessed of the potential of previously purified action—such an exhaustion manner merely exists.

Second, the extensive explanation of nature has five parts: essence, definition, nature, dharmata, boundary. The essence of dharmata exhaustion: outer lights-five vision, together with bodies, exhausted; inner dust, together with concepts and aggregates, exhausted; experience vision objects exhausted, awareness abiding in a manner like the sky, the primordially pure vision.

From the Thal 'gyur: The vision of dharmata exhaustion—experience vision emptying, body exhausted, sense objects also exhausted, free from concepts, aggregates, and delusion, separate from words of expressive basis.

Definition: "Dharma" means the dharmas of body, speech, and mind aggregates, together with afflictions. "Itself" is together with the part of meditating the luminosity vision of the purifying path. "Exhaust" is "empty," mind's meditation, together with object-vision, self-reversing, not existing—called "non-observation."

From that itself: Thus the certain definition of dharmata—to the gathering of dharma-knowing aggregates, doing actions and holding characteristics, making self-vision empty, holding individual families. "Itself" is to the unfabricated, pervading the real through natural abiding, to the unfabricated, original, continuous, exhausting the numbers of sounds, words, and names.

Nature: outer and inner vision-mind exhausted, activity merely upon primordially pure self-resonance like the resonance of blue-grey sky.

From the Rtsal rdzogs: At this time, the characteristic of exhaustion—like the sky, free from action.

Dharmata has two parts: The dharmata of vision: through the exhaustion of outer and inner dust, channels and winds exhaust. Through that exhaustion, the subtle defilements, the seed-parts of latencies depending upon mind, with the characteristic of arising from all, also exhaust.

Emaho! Exhausted, empty, free—this is your original face!
