[2629-2637] Thus, summarizing meaning of gods' and humans' mind-holding. From Rangshar: gods' and humans' mind-holding—having held mouth-nose breath, and thought-free, unmoved mind—is nature of one-pointed awareness. Spoken to be without instantaneous thought. Cannot indicate great true meaning. Thus it is.

[2638-2671] Second: bodhisattva's meditation—two: actual divisions, and arisen as auxiliary. First, from two: briefly taught. From Rangshar: bodhisattva's meditation—is holding by mind, and arises by manner or force. Familiarized, becomes expanse, and abandoning food-concept. Practiced by ground-dwellers. Thought by manner is without. That also cannot indicate great meaning. Thus it is. That also—nature's meaning is rigpa clear-light, and not merely thought-free dwelling—therefore cannot indicate great meaning. Extensively explained—three from: nature-force meditation is—arises spontaneously-accomplished, non-thought manner, and only placing body-speech relaxed-down. Focused-support meditation is—meditate antidote of view—nature without afflictions subtle-coarse, and only suppress afflictions' heads. Ground-dwellers' meditation—ground's actual concentration—only purifying self-ground latencies. That from Sun-Moon Union: Great Vehicle's meditation—by nature-force meditation—unfabricated body-speech relaxed-down. By focused-support meditation—suppress instantaneous afflictions' heads. By ground-dwellers' meditation—sustains self-self continuum. Thus it is.

[2672-2685] Second: showing arisen-from-arising meditation—two: nature, and fabricated meditation. First, nature meditation is—sentient beings all—when awareness distracted—arises from slightly trembling abiding, and exists upon archer's eye, and upon sleeping eye within rabbit and eagle, etc. Briefly: exists always during times when mind-consciousness is distracted. Second is fabricated meditation: meditation, concentration, non-thought, thought-with deity generation-completion, etc.—all are fabricated deliberately by mind, and because deliberately done by intellect.

Emaho! Gods, humans, and bodhisattvas!