[5358-5388]
At the time of the two upper visions, wind is thrown outward and not held inward, arising through the ability to purify conceptuality not abiding in two moments, the body copper-shining, the all-ground consciousness part clear-vivid like fire-sparks of concept-free object-awareness emitting. Seeing the two aspects of outer extending vision and inner self-vision, body and mind separate and cut, accomplishing the great mandala, the supreme ground of not returning outward to the three realms.

Again from the Thal 'gyur: At all times of such vision, the cutting of body-mind connection, from the contaminated exhausted body also, the mind with clear characteristics arising outward, like a shooting star emitting, clearly seen in the realm of space. At the first times of that itself, from separation from wind also, through the action of pure wind, effortful, arising from throwing outward from the body. From the part of the two see-agents also, the body luminous and pure, the mind like fire-sparks emitting, not abiding as one, self-clear basis, arising in the manner of two vision aspects. Through this, having cut body-mind connection, there is no returning to the three realms.

[5383-5397]
At this time, the see-agent also, like a shooting star or fire-sparks, the all-ground consciousness part, together with the compassion-wisdom part of awareness, arise as the wisdom part seeing the two outer and inner objects. At this time there is no intentionally setting gaze manner etc. through antidote, for one never passes beyond the wheel of dharmata. This is called "completion of practice measure."

Fourth, the dharmata-exhausting vision has two parts: brief showing of exhaustion manner, and extensive explanation of nature. First: From the vision like the full moon of previous measure-arrival, the manner of self-resonance dissolving into the expanse, like the moon waning from that, again that body fading until reaching the bindu, certain vision to the first mind. That applies in sequence to the manner of purifying the four visions through the fourfold sequence of container-contents' arising, abiding, destruction, and emptiness.

Emaho! Fire-sparks in space, shooting stars—your mind is clear and free!
