THUS IS THE DEFINITIVE MANNER OF EXPLANATION ESTABLISHED,

The arising-basis of letters, their sounds and meanings hereby declared.

FIRST:

Though explanation methods are manifold, in summary they are established as three.

From Rigpa Rangdrol:

The King of Teachings' manner of explanation also

Is expounded according to this very occasion.

Scripture-style explanation and tantra-style explanation,

Instruction-style explanation—these three.

Through the gate of entry they are to be known.

Thus it is spoken.

There, scripture-style explanation is shown by means of the five perfections,

Tantra-style explanation is declared by means of the three definite abodes,

Oral instruction is explained by basis, path, and result—these three, from which

Here the main tantra-style explanation has three abodes:

For the sharp-facultied, by mentioning names, toward realization's face the tantra's name-meaning is expressed;

For the middling, by mentioning types only, toward realization's face the five perfect complete-abidings are shown; and

For the dull, with example and meaning, toward realization's face the body is extensively explained.

FIRST:

From that itself:

That also name explained is like this:

Name, homage, and promise.

Thus it is spoken.

SECOND:

Also from that itself:

The introduction shown is like this:

Teacher, Mother, and the retinue, and

Father's request—all are to be known.

Thus it is spoken.

THIRD:

The body brief, extensive, extremely extensive by means shown,

Conclusion with meaning and rejoicing,

From Rangdrol:

Text shown is like this:

Sūtra and great extensive, and

Extremely great extensive explained.

That is shown by the text's words.

Conclusion's meaning is like this:

Oral instruction meaning untied explained,

That great tantra is definitely shown.

Secret mantra all's explanation method—

Thus all are to be known.

Thus it is spoken.

That also, from the manner of explanation method's two definite branches:

FIRST, GROUNDED BY FIVE TYPES, IS EXPLAINED:

From the Sun-Moon-Joined Tantra:

By root meaning: name-identity grasped.

By yoga meaning: conclusion gate shown.

By purpose meaning: one's place established,
