1. mudrā-of-bliss’s embracing and
2. great-bliss’s equality and
3. dharmatā’s manifoldness and
4. self-appearing-ornamentation called “self-arising-play”-like samādhi,
5. Those also, the agent of meaning-activity is not,
6. By the essence and radiance of qualities arising as method, the agent is said.
7. From that, the sambhogakāya’s self-arisen form,
8. From the unceasing manner of previous appearance and compassion’s arising, the radiance’s play—
9. All pure abodes are established as adorned.
10. From the palm of the hand in the equanimity-mudrā of the great-ocean-like teaching-manifestation, a lotus-bud’s arising, and from the crown of the head, in the twenty-five realms, the appearance of uncountable emanations, each with unique colors and forms like water and moon,
11. All emanations, even when dissolved, appear as the vast expansion of the infinite,
12. In the manner of reciprocal offering-feasts’ arrayed palaces,
13. The bodies of the Five Buddha Families also, with their manifold enumerations, are incalculable.
14. In every atom of the universe’s dust, the flow of offering-water is incalculable,
15. The thirty-two major and eighty minor marks of the Buddha-fields are not emanated,
16. In the manner of the vast array of precious ornaments,
17. In the manner of the array of reciprocal offerings’ heaps, even the Buddhas of the Five Families and so forth are incalculable.
18. From all the pores’ rays of light emanating, the expanse of the universe and the teaching’s enumeration is limitless and measureless,
19. In such a way, in the sambhogakāya’s field,
20. All teachings, whether arising as scripture or realization, are not composed by letters, yet appear simultaneously with their retinues, those abiding—
21. At the time of unchanging dharmatā,
22. The sambhogakāya’s body, speech, and mind’s unceasing ornament-wheel’s activity, thirty-sixfold, self-manifesting,
23. The four outer activities of the body are:
24. The body’s appearance, being selfless, is established as purified from all flaws.