[11711-11735]
[DZOGCHEN VIEW – EIGHT APPEAR-DOORS METHOD]
[QUALITY ARISING]

<Eight appear-doors (*snang byed sgo brgyad*) of quality arising. Lines 11711-11735: "Appear-make door plural eight in also, Quality eight-of method as arise, Families six escape-cave self-cut from, Samsara-in swing-rope cut those, Compassion lasso-by-means-of grasp-for, Birth four-of form-by-means-of beings in, Great-compassion self-as appear, Samsara-nirvana self-relate quality-in, Two aspect mix-of method as appear, This non-existent samsara-nirvana troop cut-by-means-of, Realize non-existent-of defect become, Quality arise-method this only, Buddha all-of own-field in, Body and shadow like, Appear-of light five-by-means-of pervade-for, Inside-of appear-aspect self-clear as, Light five-of method-by-means-of appear-door from, Quality clear-make outward not-lose, This non-existent beings own-light and, Cut-off apart-as cut become, Union appear-make relate-for, Self-appear quality great-as arise, Body all one-to roll-for, Body three one-to abide-by-means-of, Nature body-of nature in"—in eight appear-making doors also; as eight quality methods arising; from self-cutting escape cave of six families; cutting those swing-ropes in samsara; grasping with compassion lasso; in beings by means of four births' forms; great compassion appearing as self; in samsara-nirvana self-relating quality; as method of mixing two aspects; cutting by means of this non-existent samsara-nirvana troop; defect of realizing non-existent; this only quality arising method; in all buddhas' own field; like body and shadow; pervading by means of appearing light five; as self-clear inside appearance aspect; from appear-door by means of light five method; quality clear-making not losing outward; this non-existent beings' own light; becoming cut-off apart cut; relating for union appear-making; arising as great self-appear quality; rolling body all to one; abiding by means of body three to one; in nature body's nature. **Eight appear-doors summary**: 
1. Cutting six family escape caves
2. Cutting samsara swing-ropes  
3. Compassion lasso grasping
4. Four birth forms
5. Great compassion self-appearance
6. Samsara-nirvana quality mixing
7. Cutting non-existent troop
8. Quality arising only method

These methods appear without existing—like body and shadow, pervading with five lights.>
