Page 274 - Liturgical Translation

Fourth, the sign of birth as an asura: at the time of death, fierce wind rises from all directions, black cloud-masses arise resembling fearful life-forms, clouds are greatly disturbed with fierce thunder, lightning's garland flickering and roaring. When the light of sun and moon is obscured by clouds and becomes invisible, one takes birth among the five types of asura: the five-horned, six-faced, long-armed, great-bellied, and sky-goers with ral-pa hair.

Fifth, the sign of birth as a god: at the time of separating from breath, one sees the sky as clear, sun and moon bright, without dust-wind, directions radiating with good light, greatly joyful. This is the sign of taking birth among the six races of desire gods, the five gods of the pure abodes, the fifteen birth-places of clear light, and the four limit sense-fields.

Sixth, the sign of birth as a human: at the time of life passing, the sky is greatly clear and pure, without dust, gentle clouds stretch like white silk threads, sun and moon surrounded by rainbow light—thus in sequence: mere human body, pure one, or jewel birth-place.

These are the general arrangements. If analyzed particularly: bad winds, hail, and so forth sent by angry non-humans, or the signs of other evil beings dying, are also possible. Good rainbow lights, pure skies, and so forth, or holy beings rising from the ground, obtaining samadhi, transferring life, and so forth, are also possible. Here, one with the capacity for those signs to arise in one's own mind, with good mind and conduct while alive, good signs at death are appropriate; but if bad while alive, good signs are the imposition of others' signs—in the world this is called "meeting the rainbow-seeker."

From that one's signs, bad arising is appropriate, for outer and inner dependent origination are one. Here, not knowing this particular exclusion, one might slander holy beings with bad signs and mistakes, or meeting the rainbow-seeker with good signs toward evil ones, rejoice and follow after them.
