Page 279 - Liturgical Translation

By meaning, separating inanimate from consciousness, remaining in death-fearing suffering.

The appearance of the dharmata intermediate state: abandoning the support of aggregate self-grasping, body and wisdom's dharmata appears manifest; karma and latent-tendency's connection cut, enjoying the dharmata of nature-meditation; faculty grasp-doer's object empty, exercising in the dharmata of self-appearance clear-light.

The appearance of the existence intermediate state: outer body's existence as mind-body with all faculties complete goes unobstructed; inner mind's existence thinking in many think-doers, mind enters; body and mind's gathered existence goes unobstructed in all except the two supports, mind loose.

The two supports: the vajra seat accomplished from blessing, and the mother's womb.

Therein, most masters identify the vajra seat as that in India, but here it is desired as that in which all buddhas abide in the door of liberation from suffering in the supreme place of buddhahood in the inner space of primordially-pure unchangeable. The mother's womb is desired as the impure door of samsara in any of the six realms' birth-places; know that this is not the literal meaning.

Generally, sutra places have two: provisional meaning and definitive meaning; intention and indirect intention—bound by four manners. Tantra section places have two on top of that: literal and not literal—know these bound by six limits.

These too from the Thal-logical Result:

Intermediate state's appearance:
Nature-remaining aggregates and
Elements and afflictions appear as objects,
Death-time's mist-gloom rising,
Consciousness not remaining as one.

Dharmata intermediate state: body and
Wisdom, light and color,
Drops expanding and elements appearing,
Whatever appears: dharmata's measured palace.

Existence's appearance flickering,
Flashing like dream appearance,
True-appearance false, mind's object,
White-mist etc., six races' light,
Each individual's focused object appears—thus.

Fifth, ground-boundary: from four.
