Page 277 - Liturgical Translation

The first also arises from that, the last also must be delivered to that nature's state. In the space of primordial purity there is no intermediate state; that self does not depend on other dharmas before or after, nor is entry into anyone's interval possible, for it transcends the limits of transfer-change and appearance-emptiness.

From the Thal-logical Result:

In the primordial purity of the beginning,
The ground of confusion cannot be expressed;
Likewise, what of the unconfused?

This point too, if wisdom exists, is of great import.

Second, the etymology: "intermediate" (bar) is expressed from the aspect of being the center dharma of any upper, lower, before, or after—like the intermediate state of dream existing between going toward sleep and waking. "Ma" indicates center. "Do" (two) dwells in the center like a connecting rope joining beginning and end—the connecting rope of the center of two.

Third, divisions: from common and uncommon. From some common vehicles, birth-death intermediate state, dream intermediate state, dharmata intermediate state, existence intermediate state, and so forth are desired. In this uncommon vehicle, the secret king, four are regarded: nature intermediate state, death-time intermediate state, dharmata intermediate state, and existence intermediate state.

From the Thal-logical Result:

Such is the dharmata of intermediate state,
The greatly secret dharmata explained;
Divided, from four aspects—thus.

Fourth, appearance-pattern: from two. First, as shown generally: appearance in the general aspect of the three realms is desired as the manifestation of grasping-grasped, attachment-aversion, and afflictions; the subtle, form, and formless.

Appearance in each of the six realms individually: in one cause-water, by gods as nectar, etc. From the Two Truths:

Mind alone differentiates things,
Thus sees objects as unestablished.

For an individual in the category of doors, to one donor many enemies and friends appear.
