Page 280 - Liturgical Translation

The ground-boundary of the nature-remaining intermediate state: from exit of mother's womb until struck by death-condition disease. From that, the interval until breath's gasping is not cut is the death-time intermediate state. From inner breath cut, clear-light arising, the interval of spontaneously-accomplished appearance is the dharmata intermediate state. From that, spontaneously-accomplished dissolving, flashing like dream, arising and entering mother's womb until is the ground-boundary of the existence intermediate state.

That too is called "instruction of giving the robe-shake to the traveler crossing" for those shown the introduction at death-time's end. That death-time is the traveler entering the path, great in death-suffering. If various path-appearances not known as self-appearance, danger of arising as enemy exists; if known, danger of appearing as helper exists. To strike that shake at death-time is called "instruction of hitting as robe-shake," the example and meaning fitting.

Those are the general arrangements of intermediate state; there is need to divide easily by half.

Second meaning, extensive explanation of individual natures in four: for the nature intermediate state, the tone-instruction like entering the box of cutting the knowable's class; for the death-time intermediate state, the instruction like a beautiful woman looking in a mirror of giving clarity to unclear; for the dharmata intermediate state, the instruction like meeting a familiar person before or a child entering mother's lap of gaining mind-confidence in self-appearance; for the existence intermediate state, the instruction like inserting a fox in a broken fox-hole of connecting karma's continuity.

First: before doing the entering-box, examine whether caught by harming enemies or not, and having finished the box with no harm, when later entering that box, without need to cut superimposition, without doubt and obstruction-attachment, enter. Likewise that yogin: first desiring liberation from samsara, examine which method is profound, which point is great, and that Dharma of self mind-confidence, abandoning three: not deciding the limit, entering with doubt, and not arriving at the beginning.
