Page 276 - Liturgical Translation

Yet at death-time, appearances of hell-fire, fear of hunger and thirst, consciousness gloomy or thinking to dwell within animals, or not seeing before the human lands, or experiencing the inside of Meru and ocean, or appearances of seeing inside god-mansions and pleasure-groves, or seeing appearances like white-clear—these are explained in sutras as inner signs certain for each of the six realms individually.

Also from tantra sections: warmth from foot-sole, teeth, navel, throat, between-eyebrows, and crown dissolving are proclaimed as signs of taking birth in the six realms. Signs that arise, appearing in agreement with one's own mind, should be certainly known as signs of individual birth-places.

### CITATION: From the Treasury of the Supreme Vehicle

From the Treasury of the Supreme Vehicle,
The three times' signs' arrangement established,
This is the twenty-second chapter.

Thus having shown the general place of instruction, the methods of liberation in this life for those of excellent effort and faculties together with the sequence of signs, now for establishing extensively the Dharma arrangement for intermediate-state perfect buddhahood for those of middling capacity—this has two aspects: the general arrangement of the intermediate state, and the extensive explanation of individual natures.

First, essence: the situation of outer objects' dharmas appearing to inner mind. That too—all appearances other than the inner space primordially pure are the situation of the intermediate state. The aspect of self-face appearance of the self-radiance of ground-appearance body and wisdom arising as activity by the two form-bodies is the intermediate state of pure dharmata. The confused dharmas of all six realms' confusion-appearance is the intermediate state of impure confusion.

Those two dharmas of pure and impure—existing in whose interval? From the space of primordial purity moved outward, needing to dissolve again into primordial purity, thus they exist in the interval of the nature primordially pure.
