[6065]
COMMENTARY ON PAGE 156

Three kāyas depend, disciple object sentient beings appear (lines 1-2). Thus it is spoken (line 3).

Those manner extensively shown (line 4): Vajradhara Brahma-great arrangement eons numberless inconceivable passed after, field forming beginning start, here north Moving- possessing field, teaching's seed-three that abode (lines 5-8).

Field there sentient beings individual karma, these arising time seven, not-arising time seven fourteen flourish decline (lines 9-11). There arising time seven: endowment, perfection, great perfection, strife, three strife, strife-possessing, great strife-possessing (lines 12-19). Those intervals decline dark eon seven called (line 20).

Then field vessel environment formed eon first Tuṣita, teacher came, seed-three here descended, sequence seven flourish decline, finally other leap (lines 21-25).

From Sound Talgyur (line 26): thus teaching this, remaining teaching this, time definitely great explained. Endowment and perfection, perfection great, thus two and three possessing, strife-possessing and great strife, those each interval, dark eon sixty, teaching's seed other becomes (lines 27-36).

North Moving-possessing, teaching's lamp there abides, Palden Kyong called, monk holders become (lines 37-40). That patron king, Jinamitra called, teaching secret basis make (lines 41-43). Years thousand three hundred abides (line 44).

Then dark eon... (line 45).

Listen! The vast timescale of the teachings! Brahma-great eons, numberless, inconceivable. The seven stages of flourishing: endowment, perfection, great perfection—then the decline: strife, three strife, strife-possessing, great strife-possessing. This is not just history. This is the cycle of all things!

The teaching's seed-three moves from field to field. North Moving-possessing field, where the lamp of teaching abides. Palden Kyong the holder, Jinamitra the patron king. For 1,300 years the secret teaching thrives.

Then the dark eon comes. This is the nature of samsara—flourishing and decline, arising and passing. But the teaching itself does not truly decline! It merely moves to another field, another time, when conditions are ripe.

Do not despair when you see degeneration! This is part of the natural cycle. The strife-possessing time is also the time when the essence of the teaching becomes most potent. In the darkest time, the brightest light shines.
