[17403-17408] Buddha become exist as reason. Alaya various appear through of purpose. That from all complete through of purpose. Buddha itself as sentient beings reason. Why all complete through of purpose. Or else occasion-possess as become.

[17409-17414] Why various appear through of purpose. Occasionally Buddha exist as become. Occasionally sentient beings exist as become. Why definite-establishment through of purpose. Then asked reverse from say. Then alaya nonexistent-or what.

[17415-17420] Then asked through of answer give. Alaya thought grasp to. Various delusion through of awareness through of deceived. Alaya nescience entity indeed. Thus. That through of from alaya and chos-kaya distinguish precious-te.

[17421-17426] Klong-drug-pa from. That through of from alaya and chos-kaya not-distinguish if form one to different as grasp through of awareness and similar-te. Meaning individually appear through of not-able thus. These two through of example indeed. Ocean and boat through of aspect similar-te. Chos-kaya primordially pure through of rigpa defilement exist not-experienced expanse ocean clear similar.

[17427-17432] Where-also not-established where-also appear through of potential not-ceased. First field nature completely pure and. Condition adventitious through of defilement free through of expanse that to stability gain pure two-possess through of aspect indeed. Alaya ocean through of top at boat as not-enter like. First expanse from delude time ground through of nescience all through of basis and.

[17433-17438] Pervader and. Essence abide boat like. Mind mind-byung karma and habit delusion through of person many through of fill indeed. Rang-shar from. Alaya and chos-kaya through of example indeed. Ocean and boat through of manner path arise.

[17439-17442] Sleep fall and wake manner. Faculties through of distinction exist through of purpose thus. That-also rigpa defilement nonexistent chos-kaya through of essence time all to reverse-object not-thing and final liberation-ground exist. Alaya sleep like deluded-appearance through of dream all appear through of basis through of become from wake through of do need through of distinction very great. That-also sleep and dream reverse need although.
