[17677-17682] Nescience equal as abide through of. Thus and. Mu-tig string from. Mind indeed gather-assembly arise through of purpose. Defilement itself and also coat through of. Alaya gather through of mind to etcetera.

[17683-17688] Defilement through of number as become through of indeed. Thus. That-also rigpa to obstruct-do mind that exist as possess through of sentient beings called. Mind that through of karma accumulate through of delusion itself delusion one from one to samsara through of karma do. Mind that rigpa from liberate. Pure exhausted purify if Buddha called.

[17689-17694] Rigpa defilement and free through of purpose. That through of from free-object defilement through of assembly true indeed. Mind only indeed. That itself from. Mind that free if Buddha. Body-possess all through of defilement exhausted.

[17695-17700] Migrate beings indeed mind that through of migrate. That not-if migrate as able is nonexistent. That purpose migrate delusion-wheel like. Thus. Mind that also object appear this and this called symbol and name and universal grasp through of grasp object through of mind and. That through of distinction to investigate and detail as analyze grasp through of subject through of mind two as gather indeed.

[17701-17706] Grasp object to grasp mind. Thus explain indeed. These need from common gi text from also. Mind cease that body through of directly do. Thus and. Tshig-gsal-to.

[17707-17713] Mind and mind from arise through of enter also continuous break and. Dkon-mchog pile from. Mind and mind and consciousness and also free. Samadhi through of abode also not-abandon. This indeed tathagata through of heart through of secret thought through of not-fathomable called. Pristine-awareness indeed. Space like elaboration cease and Buddha through of dharma measureless through of ground and source wheel pristine awareness ocean through of assembly and together chos-kaya through of home in always abide through of affliction and habit through of thicket all burn through of fire like abide.
