[17753-17758] Mind elaboration-possess thought defilement through of dharma emanate gather and one-pointed higher-realms enter like indeed nature nonexistent. Sems-by-means-of nature. Sems-by-means-of natural-state. Mind itself called name through of enumeration that itself through of character luminous pristine awareness as abide thus arise. Mind and mind-itself distinguish as not-know through of fool through of also pitaka know as arrogant indeed display arrogance-possess as only.

[17759-17764] Thus mind and pristine awareness well separate from common object-possess through of vehicle to mind to ground path fruit as do although. That all meaning directly not-arrive through of. Vehicle this to pristine awareness to Buddha through of ground path fruit as enumerate through of. Quickly samsara from liberate. Other samsara through of root to enlightenment hope through of long even that obtain difficult. Ground open-manner err purpose. Kuntu-zangpo heart through of mirror from.

[17765-17770] Mind from Buddha desire from I from err indeed. Thus say. Err manner indeed. Reason and scripture two through of contradict indeed. Thus mind from Buddha and path and. Ground three open if.

[17771-17776] Open-ground mind that itself grasp-grasp and possess through of purpose you through of ground path fruit all grasp-grasp and possess as result. Desire from Buddha not-accomplish and accomplish although reverse result. Grasp-grasp from not-liberated through of purpose. Also mind habit and karma various gather like. Ground path fruit also that to result. Desire if delusion as result through of flaw exist indeed.

[17777-17783] Opponent through of this thus. Mind nonexistent if that through of also Buddha not-reason. Buddha that bya-mind through of distinction through of done as you also desire through of purpose. Answer say. Mind nonexistent and exist through of Buddha become not-thing. Chos-kaya through of pristine awareness exist nonexistent through of thus arise. Mind through of delusion wake through of Buddha distinction through of done true although still ground spontaneous-presence through of Buddha through of not-certain through of true actual also not-thing.
