[11021-11056] Listen well, dear one! From the Mu-tig-phreng-ba (Pearl Garland): the nature dwells in its own essence—to this Buddha and sentient beings are not different, non-recognition and confusion are not different, mind and mental factors do not separately exist. Look here! Enemy and friend are not different, relatives and non-relatives are not different. Affliction and self-grasping are not different!

Understand this: going and coming are not different, dharma and non-dharma do not appear different, method and wisdom themselves are not different. Aggregate and element are not different, object and grasped object are not different. Sense-power and object are not different, grasping and grasped are not different!

Form and primordial-wisdom are not different, knower and knowable have no master. Light and color do not exist separately, sound and smell are beyond distinction. Desire and attachment are not different, space and palace are not different, deity and offering are beyond all duality!

[11057-11076] From the Klong-drug-pa (Six Spaces): elaboration-free dharma-nature primordially-pure. Your own face is the completely-pure essence-base. Free from words and letters, cannot be determined by expression, free from all superimposed terms. Not grasping or grasped conceptualization. Buddha not different from sentient beings, dharma not different from non-dharma concepts—what and what and what also not! This is called the essence of non-differentiation.

From the Yi-ge-med-pa (Without Letters): To me, birth and death are not a cause, ceasing not—dharma complete! To me, outer and inner are not a cause, clear—dharma complete! To me, empty and existent are not a cause, appearing—dharma complete!

To me, perceivable object is not a cause, seeing—dharma complete! To me, body and mind are not a cause, self-appearing—dharma complete! To me, self and other are not a cause, awareness-dharmas five—complete! To me, action's cause is not a cause, great meditation—complete! To me, gone object is not a cause, self-appearing object—complete! To me, direction and kind are not a cause, secret primordial-wisdom—complete! To me, appearing and ceasing are not a cause, space-dharmas three—complete!

Emaho! All dharmas complete in the nature of mind!
